Classic monopoly rules are as follows [“Monopoly Rules.” Hasbro, www.hasbro.com/common/instruct/00009.pdf. Accessed at Sep 29 2020.]

The aim of the game is to become the richest player by performing actions like buying, renting, and selling property.
To start the game, each player should have $1500. 
There will be a bank for handling several actions. The bank stores the Title Deed cards until someone purchases them. The bank pays salaries and bonuses to the players. The bank also has the right to loan money in cases such as mortgages. The bank collects all taxes, fines, loans, and interests.
Each player will roll the dice to determine his or her turn. The player that has the highest total after rolling the dice will have the first turn, the player that has the highest total after rolling the dice will have the second turn, and so on. To start the game, the player will choose a token and throw the dice. The player will move the token the number of spaces s/he rolled. After the player completes his or her turn the next player will choose a token and roll the dice. The game will continue like this: each player will roll the dice when it’s their turn and perform an action. If a player throws doubles, they move their token as usual. Same player throws the dice again and moves their token as usual. If they throw doubles three times repeatedly they will go to jail. 
There are some rules for buying properties, paying rent, chance and community chest, income tax, jail, free parking, houses, hotels, building shortages, selling property, mortgages, and bankruptcy.
Each time when a player’s token lands on or passes over the GO spot the banker will pay them $200. Additionally, if a player passing GO on the throw of dice lands 2 spaces beyond it on Community Chest, or 7 spaces beyond it on Chance, and draws the “Advance to GO” card, s/he collects an extra $200.
When a player wants to buy a property that is not owned s/he should pay the written price. After buying they will receive the Title Deed Card. If they do not wish to buy the property, the bank will sell it at auction to the highest bidder. 
When a player stands on a property that is owned by another player, s/he will pay rent to the owner. If the property is mortgaged they will not pay any rent. If the player that holds that property owns all the properties with the same color, then a visitor will pay double rent. 
When a player stands on a chance and community chest s/he will take the top card from the deck and follow the instructions on the card. The card will be returned to the bottom of the deck. The “Get Out of Jail Free” card is held to be used later or the player can sell it to another player at a price they agree. 
When a player stands on the “Income Tax” s/he can either pay $200 or 10% of his or her total worth (all cash, printed prices of properties, and cost price of buildings s/he owns).
A player can go to jail because of three reasons:
1.	His or her token lands in jail
2.	S/he draws the “Go to jail” card.
3.	S/he throws doubles three times repeatedly.
When a player goes to jail they cannot collect their $200 GO bonus. There are three ways to get out of jail:
1.	S/he throws doubles on any of his or her next three turns.
2.	S/he uses the “Get Out of Jail Free” card (they can buy it from another player if they do not have it).
3.	S/he pays a fine of $50 before s/he rolls the dice on either of his or her next two turns.
If a player does not get out of jail by their third turn, they must pay the $50 fine and get out. Actions like collecting rents, buying, and selling properties are not affected when a player is in jail. 
When a player has all the properties with the same color they may buy houses from the  bank and put them in those properties. Players cannot put more than one house on any property until they have built a house on every property with the same color. This rule continues for the second, third, and fourth row. Players should first complete that row for a color to start another row. No more than four houses can be bought for each property.
When a player has four houses on a property, s/he can return the houses s/he has and buy a hotel to put it on any property of the color-group. A property can only have one hotel.
A player can sell any unimproved properties (except buildings) to any player at any price. If buildings are standing on any property of the same color, they must first sell the buildings to the bank to sell any property of that color. A player can get half the price they paid for the houses and hotels when they sell them to the bank. Houses on a property cannot be sold at once, they should be sold one by one, revers of the manner they were bought. All hotels on one color-group may be sold at once, or they may be sold one house at a time (one hotel = five houses), evenly, in reverse of how they were erected.
Unimproved properties can be mortgaged through the bank at any time. The mortgage value is printed on each Title Deed card. To lift the mortgage, the owner must pay the bank the amount of the mortgage plus 10% interest. When all the properties of a color-group are no longer mortgaged, the owner may begin to buy back houses at full price. The owner may sell this mortgaged property to another player at any agreed price. If you are the new owner, you may lift the mortgage at once if you wish by paying off the mortgage plus 10% interest to the bank. If the mortgage is not lifted at once, you must pay the bank 10% interest when you buy the property and if you lift the mortgage later you must pay the bank an additional 10% interest as well as the amount of the mortgage.
You are declared bankrupt if you owe more than you can pay either to another player or to the bank. If your debt is to another player, you must tum over to that player all that you have of value and leave the game. If you own houses or hotels, these will be returned to the bank and half their value will be paid to the creditor by the bank. If you have mortgaged property you also turn this property over to your creditor but the new owner must at once pay the bank 10% of that property. The new owner may then pay the principal or hold the property until s/he lifts the mortgage. If s/he holds the property in this way until a later turn, s/he must pay the interest again upon lifting the mortgage. You should owe the bank, instead of another player, more than you can pay (because of taxes or penalties) even by selling off buildings and mortgaging property, you must turn over all assets to the bank. In this case, the bank immediately sells by auction all property so taken, except buildings. A bankrupt player must leave the game. The last player left in the game wins.











